Zapier (#1780)
enkidevs/curriculum: zapier/introduction/zaps-ii/zapier-data.md

---
author: kapnobatai136

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

type: normal

---

# Zapier Data

---
## Content

> Until now, we have only used simple actions in our zaps (monitoring some data or sending a message). Zapier is not limited to that, with another popular application being finding data and using it at a later time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until now, we have only used simple actions in our zaps which enabled _reacting to data changes_ and _sending messages_. Another popular Zapier application is _finding data_ and _using it at a later point in time_.
```

Reviewer: rephrased this a bit with the intention of presenting it a bit more unbiased

> We have somewhat done this, when we used the filter step to verify that someone has actually gained access to our base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have somewhat done this already when we used the _filter step_ to verify that someone has actually gained access to our base. Essentially, we reacted to data changes only for specific values.
```

> Now, what if we want to know who has gained access to our base? This is entirely possible, and since we are using Google Sheets we don't require any extra steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extending on the previous example, what if we want to know who has gained access to our base? This is possible and, since we are using Google Sheets, we don't need to add any extra steps in the zap.
```

^ wondering if "task" works better than "step" 

also, it might be adding a paragraph above this where we briefly describe the previous example. if someone will read these 2 workouts (zaps-i & zaps-ii) some time apart then this will be quite confusing

Author: agreed, I'll add it as a footnote

> All that you would have to do is go to the Slack step, and in the `'Message Text'` box you can already access all the information seen in the linked spreadsheet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All that you would have to do is go to the Slack step. In the `'Message Text'` box you'll have access all the information related toany row change seen in the linked spreadsheet.
```

Reviewer: I think it's worth sharing the syntax they'll use to access a variable (i.e. step1.field_name or how it looks exactly)

Author: from what I know the only way of accessing variables is by selecting them from the drop-down menu

![gif-of-data](#)

![image-of-completed-data](https://img.enkipro.com/936b5a4e98e90a855f51334425e4fd5f.png)

---
## Practice

> With Zapier, you can find data in an app and ???.

Reviewer: the answer to this question is pretty much gave away through elimination

thinking about it this insight doesn't introduce anything new that could be asked to I don't really have a better suggestion :/

Reviewer: maybe we could have a multiple choice thing wheret they need to pick what can be done with zapier:
- monitor data and react to changes
- access data which was reacted to at a later time
- send messages
- use it as a database
- replace note taking apps 
etc
